I got fan mail from a supporter on
patreon this young man writes in and
says I think I should tell you a little
bit about myself I am 19 years old and
I'm from Belgium I've been vegan for
three years now living in a family that
completely rejects this idea I actually
found your channel about a year ago
through a teacher I had in high school
who was also vegan but I never really
watched your videos until about two
weeks ago so somewhere in Belgium there
is a high school teacher who took a sign
one of his or her students and said oh I
understand you're vegan I just think you
have conflicts there family you should
watch this crazy Canadian guy maybe hope
maybe he'll help improve your English
vocabulary I don't know so it's nice to
imagine on the other side of the world a
teacher and student commiserating and
sharing the link to my channel that's
cool we were in Belgium about a year ago
some year year and a half whatever it's
been now Belgium is not such a strange
place to us I have had I have had fans
tell me face-to-face and an email and by
Skype and stuff that watching my channel
improved their ability in the English
life and some of those viewers English
was their first language but they felt
me use a lot of vocabulary they did
they'd never heard before they didn't
they didn't learn in school okay I
continued quote I really connected with
your opinion on different topics and
your approach to them but what really
got me interested is when I heard about
your humanitarian work and your work on
languages right now I'm thinking about
what direction I want my life to take
and I was hoping you could tell me a bit
about how you decided on what you wanted
to do with your life and how you ended
up doing humanitarian work etc okay so
I'll finish reading the letter in a
minute but this is obviously the big
question it's true of done humanitarian
work but I am NOT the kind of person who
goes around telling other people that
they should repeat my mistakes in life
it's true that I've spent a lot of time
learning
a lot of languages and I don't encourage
others to repeat my mistakes in life um
how did I end up with such a focus on
humanitarian work it was primarily
through rejecting the approach to
political reality presented to me by my
parents my parents were communists they
were real sincere no joke Communists and
they were very directly disciples of
Karl Marx and Karl Marx teaches that all
social progress occurs through violence
now yeah that's that's the one clause
one sentence version of Karl Marx's
theory of social change it's true Karl
Marx also talks about economic systems
of production changes in technology
changes in the organization of labour
but what it boils down to is for true
belief in communists the only type of
social change they can participate in is
violence and from a very early age there
was this conflict between me and my
parents because I was always asking
about humanitarian work like from my
perspective okay you guys claim you care
about the poor but you don't actually
care about the you basically just
propound the notion that one day you're
gonna have this incredibly violent
revolution in the name of the poor and
then in theory like the Soviet Union and
like China things will be quote unquote
better for the poor which is again even
then it was debatable back in the 1980s
it was really debatable whether the poor
were better off in Western democracies
or in communist dictatorships okay but
all that all that aside it's like well
gee you know gee mom gee dad there were
other kids at my school and their
parents actually do some kind of charity
work like they actually give bowls of
soup to homeless people or they do
fundraisers they're involved in some
kind of charity of measuring average and
I noticed that you and you're kind of
self-selected clan of political
extremists you all have nothing
do with that you reject all those ideas
and your idea of political activism is
on the one hand a commitment to extreme
violence and let's be clear both of my
parents I can remember my mother
directly saying that she approved of the
government of China massacring people in
Tibet and exterminating Buddhism I can
remember my father directly saying that
he approved of Joseph Stalin killing
millions of people for for reasons that
are actually much more difficult to
summarize Josef sometimes sometimes
Stalin killed people just because too
many of his purges it's very hard to
ascribe a rational motive to um you know
they really approved of mass murder not
just say during the French Revolution
not just in a slave revolt revolt a
rebellion they they really bought into
the violence of the ideology and then on
the other hand like a lot of leftists
there were these strange ideas that
really valorized the arts so you see
that you see that even with people like
contra points even with kind of current
generation of watered-down wishy-washy
socialists you know what is it you think
is so special about the arts and now on
YouTube it's like what is it you think
is special about doing like art
criticism like you know why is it why
okay a Slavic he has hours and hours
discussing the Batman films here on
YouTube yeah culture left-wing cultural
criticism of bad angles hey you know I'm
not I'm not against it but you can see
when the left wingers do it when
Communists do it they think there's some
greater significance there so I had a
friend back in Canada years and years
ago and his parents were fundamentalist
Christians in brief they were they were
sincere serious Christians and they did
humanitarian work and I said too many
times said if I had been born in your
family I would have found it much more
difficult to challenge my parents
beliefs just because of the humanitarian
work like even though everything else
about Christianity may be
everything else may be false oh you guys
are part of an ideology where you
actually help people where you actually
feed the poor or give clothes to the
needy
they went to Africa they help people in
various his particular family um
now of course and I think it'd be
inevitable that I'd reject the Bible and
so on but that probably would have had a
much bigger grip on me so the point is
this in my case I stumbled into
humanitarian work via negativa it was
through the negation of the other paths
presented to me at a young age I was
involved with theatre with acting and
playwriting and I don't know if I've
ever really done a video talking about
how that affected my life but didn't a
lot of ways and it affected the way I
perceived myself and the way I perceived
relationships with women they should you
know shallow issues that that haunt
people feel otherwise issues of beauty
and appearance and stuff and you know
and it changed the way I viewed Canadian
society a lot of things like that came
out of my my early involved in the
theater when you look at that you say
okay this is not for me when I looked at
other arts like painting okay I'm
interested in like the most political 1%
of painting but like you know most of
the stuff that the pursuit of the
aesthetic or something is of absolutely
notice to me so negative these things
then negating the kind of path of
violent revolution one of the main
things left was hey humanitarian work
now of course partly I chose
humanitarian work for the wrong reasons
that's what I'm emphasizing here impart
lighted sort of ignorance and I did so
to my own destruction so to speak
however what I was correct about or what
I was not wrong about was that I looked
at humanitarian work also as the kind of
educational experience I've courted this
before there is an old nihilist slogan
Russian nihilism go to the poor be the
poor go to the people be the people the
idea that you know if you go to do
humanitarian work in Cambodia or Laos
you're not going there to teach them
you're not going there to teach them how
to farm rice you're going there to learn
you know you're going there to learn how
they live how they survive whether
you're talking with people who literally
survive in the jungle she was still had
her people who survived as rice farmers
you know whatever that is you're there
to kind of learn from that culture and I
did not think of that as as anthropology
and I was always very so it's a kind of
traditional ism it's a kind of inter
traditionalism saying okay I can go into
humanitarian work I can make life better
in some way providing something and then
in return I can kind of be a student of
everything that's right and everything
that's wrong with this culture because
believe me I'm not glorifying it nobody
does when was the last time you heard
someone glorify in Cambodian culture
okay myths it's a brutal terrible awful
culture it's so many ways but
nevertheless you know the point is you
go there not to preach and not to teach
but you go to learn and that I was right
about and in that sense maybe in that
sense alone I still recommend
humanitarian works that this person
writing in his nineteen you've got a lot
to learn and you could learn a lot from
Unitarian work the problem is
humanitarian work is a rich man's game
if you are not a donor if you are not a
fundraiser what are you doing the
economic reality of humanitarian work
even for someone who's a medical doctor
or a dentist you might think oh it's
easy for them they have the credentials
no no it's not humanitarian work is easy
for Bill Gates it's easy for
multimillionaires it's easy for
incredibly wealthy people and for
everyone else it's a very dark very
dishonest field and it's a bit of a
running gag in the mainstream press in
journalism every couple of years people
do an article specifically about
quitting the humanitarian nonprofit
sector and going over to the the
business world and interviewing people
have done that and they all say oh wow
things are so much more honest and
upstanding difference before profit
sector and I know why I know why when
you're on the inside figuring it out you
can figure out why this is not to say
that you know everyone in business is
honest and upstanding but that as I say
it's almost a running joke in in Western
culture and you know it's worth
examining
it's worth understanding but it's a
little
bit like asking you know why does the
Catholic Church have such a bad track
record you know in terms of everything
rape and impregnating students and you
know a couple cultural genocide should
mention makes you know all these
terrible things if you kind of make a
flowchart and say okay well what is the
Catholic Church doing with this
humanitarian project then why does it
turn out so badly I would just say other
charity organizations have more in
common with the Catholic Church that you
might like to assume including even
left-wing and secular and communist
organizations so yeah that the question
was how you decided on what you wanted
to do with your life and how you ended
up doing humanitarian work so briefly
Melissa's heard me say this before just
in the last week when I was at the
University of Toronto I met professors
of Asian Studies who'd never been to
Asia
I met white men who had devoted decades
of their life to working on language
history politics culture of different
countries in Asia and never got in an
airplane and what they're never gotten a
boat wasn't just at the University of
Toronto as time went on I met other
professors who lived in a totally white
Western bubble and had no real
experience these places so when they
talk about Cambodia they're talking
about a word on a piece of paper they're
talking about a series of lines and
their lines written in English too they
don't learn the local language and their
knowledge of local language would still
just be words under fear they don't have
a sense of the people and their struggle
in their culture and the contradictions
and the brutality and everything else
they don't know what it's like to
struggle to get a good night's sleep
because of the dogs barking outside your
window and the mosquito is buzzing
outside your mosquito net all the other
things that are packaged into that
experience of really living out on those
frontiers and they may know what it's
like to read an ancient Pali or ancient
Sanskrit text you know that's been
photocopied or reproduced from a book a
copy of a copy of a copy but they maybe
don't know what it's like to be out in
that jungle and see it itched onto a
piece of stone and then to not just see
the history because you're not seeing
the historical context to see the
reality of the village sir
today what society and the political
situation is today sir in that piece of
snow so you get a sense of okay this is
what things were like five hundred years
ago and this is well thanks felt like
today
sometimes those ancient snow today could
be in a parking lot full of you know
full of jeepneys and motorcycles and
stuff you know what I'm just saying
reality of living out there can be
educational all those ways to the shock
of contrasting the ancien in the modern
so yeah I met those professors who spent
their whole lives with a chalkboard in a
white Western setting and I decided
that's not for me I've got to live like
a young man when I'm young most these
professors they're over 60 was clear
they never did it they're never gonna do
it is it okay so while I'm in my 20s I
got to go out and risk stepping on a
landmine I got to have this combination
of humanitarian got to do it now and I I
made that decision and in some ways I'm
left with regrets that will haunt me for
the rest of my life but whenever I talk
to you and interact with those guys the
guys who stayed in western academia
whether Canadian academia British
academia French academia I won't
whenever I talk to any of them I think
all of them envied me and this is not
psychology on my part this is not like
an analysis amine like they have sent me
emails saying wow I really envy you or
you know even they don't think of it at
first they sit down with me and start
talking to me and they mention some
stone inscription it's like oh yeah I've
been there and I've seen it you know
they mentioned some you know Buddhist
temple any sense like oh no I've been
there and talked to the monks or I you
know I'd really had those experiences
whether to deal with wealth and poverty
whether to do with farming you might be
talking about the reality of Agriculture
and the economy or whether to do with
Buddhism in ancient history in languages
and you know oh no no that's you know
that's not what that dialect sounds like
in the Northeast they say it this way
and I know because I've been there
whenever I've talked to those people who
stayed in the classroom with the
chalkboard I honest I can't think of a
single exception I think all of them
have said to me pretty much in those
words that they that they envy me that
they wish they had those experiences
instead of taking the path they did or
in addition to taking the path
so look I think that's it for this video
he says I also want to have a positive
impact on the world in any way I can I
may not have all the right answers but
kid at age 19 you're asking a lot of the
right questions